---
layout: page
title: Projects
---

#### Recent Projects

- <b style="font-size:24px"> Minimum Time-to-Climb of a Supersonic Aircraft [Dec'20] </b>

<p><small> This project compared the optimal trajectory generated by a direct shooting method, i.e., Legendre-Gauss-Radau (LGR) direct collocation method, and an indirect shooting method, i.e., Pontryagin’s maximum principle (PMP), for a modern supersonic aircraft. </small></p>

- <b style="font-size:24px"> Integral concurrent learning: adaptive control with parameter convergence  [May'20]</b>

<p><small> In this project, the simulation results from the assigned paper was reconstructed. In the original paper, a modified CL adaptive update law has been developed which results guarantees on the convergence of the parameter estimation errors without requiring PE or the estimation of state derivatives. </small></p>

- <b style="font-size:24px"> Incremental quasi-newton method with local superlinear convergence rate  [May'20]</b>

<p><small> In this project, the simulation results from the assigned paper was reconstructed. In the original paper a Incremental quasi-newton method has been developed. IQN is the first stochastic quasi-Newton method proven to converge superlinearly in a local neighborhood of the optimal solution. </small></p>

- <b style="font-size:24px"> A hierarchical, scale separation-based approach to wind-aware guidance and control  [2019]</b>
<p><small> Monte-Carlo analysis and feasibility analysis of a novel modified A star algorithm for trajectory generation considering wind characteristics. </small></p>

- <b style="font-size:24px"> Intruder UAVs avoidance using Grey Wolf Algorithm  [May'19]</b>

<p><small> In this project, a simulation framework using Netlogo was developed using a famous metaheuristics algorithm named "Grey Wolf Algorithm". </small></p>


#### Past Projects

- <b style="font-size:24px"> Analysis of wind Characteristics in South-East Zone Bangladesh [2016]</b>

<p><small> In this research project, the feasibility analysis for setting up wind mills and wind pumps in South-East Zone Bangladesh was done.</small></p>

- <b style="font-size:24px"> Forced Convection Heat Transfer in Two-Dimensional Ribbed channels [2015]</b>

<p><small> Undergrad Thesis; Analyzing of the heat transfer phenomena of fluid flow which passes through ribbed channels with different boundary conditions.</small></p>

- <b style="font-size:24px"> Line following-obstacles avoider autonomous robot for Esonance [2015]</b>

<p><small> This project was done for Esonance’15. The main features of the robot were - foam-core board body, customized IR sensor array, PID for controller, sonar for avoiding obstacles.</small></p>

- <b style="font-size:24px"> Object grabber-obstacles avoider manual bot for Esonance [2015]</b>

<p><small> This project was displayed for Esonance’15. The main features of the robot were - acrylic Core Body frame and object grabber, Designed and simulated in solid works.</small></p>

- <b style="font-size:24px"> Customized line following autonomous bot for Esonance [2014]</b>

<p><small> This project was developed for Esonance’14. The main features of the robot were - acrylic body structure, customized IR sensor array (designed in Proteus) to follow a black line on a white surface.</small></p>

- <b style="font-size:24px"> Autonomous bot for IIT Bombay festival regional qualifier [2013]</b>

<p><small> The main features of the robot were - aluminum body structure. Task was to solve a grid by line Following. It also had an object grabber which could pick and drop blocks to create a path for the finish line.</small></p>

- <b style="font-size:24px"> Manual bot for IIT Bombay festival regional qualifier [2013]</b>

<p><small> The main features of the robot were - acrylic body structure, designed in 3D max. The main task was to throw a ball into a basket from a specific distance. I made a customized 10 tactile button remote control for this bot.</small></p>

- <b style="font-size:24px"> Line following autonomous bot for ESAB festival [2013]</b>

<p><small> This project was developed for Esonance’13. The main features of the robot were - plastics body structure. The main task was to solve a maze by line following. I used IR sensors for line following.</small></p>
